#  RiMod-FTD webportal

Fronto-Temporal Dementia (FTD) is a devastating rare early onset dementia characterized by the deterioration of the frontal and temporal lobes, severe changes in social and personal behaviour and blunting of emotions. Up to 40% of cases have a positive family history and this has been the key to the remarkable progress in our understanding of the molecular basis of FTD. Mutations in at least ten genes explain ~ 50% of familial cases, but how these different genes converge to a very similar clinical and neuropathological phenotype, is still an unanswered question. Currently, there is no cure for FTD and understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying FTD is essential for the development of successful therapies. In the Risk and Modifying factors for Frontal temporal Dementia (RiMod-FTD) project we generate a multi-omics, multi-model data resource for FTD research which will allows in-depth molecular research into these mechanisms. In the current Phase 1, we have integrated and analysed data from post mortem tissue of the frontal lobe of FTD patients with mutations in MAPT, GRN and C9orf72 and neurologically normal controls and detected common and distinct dysregulated cellular pathways. The integrated multi-omics data from Phase 1 of the RiMod-FTD project can be used to develop new hypotheses on FTD disease mechanisms. The data from the RiMod-FTD project will be of great value to other scientists and ongoing extensions of this resource will further increase its value. 

### Acknowledgements 
Post-mortem brain tissue was obtained from the Netherlands Brain Bank, Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, Amsterdam, and from the Queen Square Brain Bank for Neurological Disorders, UCL Institute of Neurology, London. 

### Funding 
This work was funded in part by the EU Joint Programme - Neurodegenerative Disease Research (JPND) project: Risk and Modifying factors for FTD (RiMod-FTD) and the NOMIS Foundation. DKV is in receipt of an Alexander von Humboldt Research Fellowship. 
